# Devincept_Nishkala
Basics about Machine Learning 

Machine learning is type of artificial intelligence which helps in predicting outcomes for a particular set of data. 
Machine learning is an important concept related with data sciences. 
It is the part of artificial intelligence which provides the system the automatic ability to learn and improve without being explicitly programmed. 
The process of machine learning indulges in extracting data from various sources. The data may structured, unstructured and semi-structured.
Machine learning is achieved using various algorithms , some of which are stated below with explanation. The algorithms can be classified into supervised or unsupervised. 
Supervised algorithms can be used to predict future events using the past patterns which has occured.
Unsupervised algorithms are used when the information is not classfied. 

Supervised algorithm:

Decision tree:
Decision tree algorithm is a supervised algorithm , mostly used in classification or regresssion of datasets. Decision tree are usually used in prediction of future events.
There are some important terminologies pertaining decision trees. They are :
Root node: It represents the entire sample or dataset and gets divided into several branch nodes further. 
Splitting: Dividing a root or a node into further sub-nodes. 
Decision Node: When a sub-node gets divided into further sub-nodes. 
Leaf: Nodes that cannot be split into further sub-nodes.
Pruning: When we remove sub-nodes from a decision node.
Branch:A subset of entire tree.
Parent Node: A node which is divided into sub-node.
Child Node: A node which is divided by a parent node. 


Unsupevised Algorithm:
  
K-means clustering: K-means is an unsupervised algorithm , which divides the dataset into clusters. 
The input for this alogrithm is an unlabeled dataset. The algorithm then divides this dataset into clusters with having similar kind of data. 
The algorithm has two important steps:
Determining the best k-value for the center by an iterative process. 
Assigning each data value to the nearest k center. This creates a cluster. 

Tensorflow:
Tensorflow is an open-source framework used for machine learning. 
Tensorflow works in three steps:
Preprocessing the dataset.(Cleaning the dataset to remove duplicates and anomalies).
Build the model.(Using ML Algorithms).
Train and estimate the model.(Testing the model for various usecases).

Reasons to use tensorflow:
Tensorflow provides various built-in functions,which becomes efficient to build various neural network models and machine learning models. 
With addition to that, Tensorflow is an open source framework , which means it can be accessed effciently from any kind of operating system.
